sandbox/notes.md, before:

# Why Heron

Heron is a programming language that strives for simplicity, safety, and code reuse. Heron supports multiple compilation targets, with the first implementation focusing on JavaScript. 

Heron is inspired by JavaScript, Python, Scala, Haskell, and C#. 

Heron contrasts with languages with significantly more complex syntax like Rust, C++, C#, F#, TypeScript, etc. in order to keep the language easy to learn, and as effective.  

Heron is a type-inferred language, and focuses on efficient array processing. Heron supports generics and higher-order functions. Heron emphasizes the use of immutable data structures. 

## Some Features 

Range operator a..b
Slice operator: xs[0:10]
Stride operator: xs[0:100:2] 
Arrow functions: 
Type inference of polymorphic functions 
All functions can be called using traditional function f(a, b) or invoked as method on first argument a.f(b)
Structural subtyping 
Operator overloading
Object literals


## Features Omitted 

Type declarations are not required. 
No difference between var, const, and let (just var)
No explicit memory management
No visibility management
No classes 

## Heron to JavaScript

One of the use cases of Heron is as a better JavaScript: 

1. Better management of module dependencies, via URNs
2. Better const management
3. Optimization of numerical array handling (via compiling to TypedArrays)
4. Restricted syntax 
5. Fewer gotachas 
6. Better performance
7. Static analysis 
8. Type inference 

Languages and technologies in this space:
1. Flow
1. Dart
1. TypeScript
1. CoffeeScript
1. Elm

## Heron for 3D Programming  

Heron is particularly well-suited to programming 3D applications because it is very strong at array and numerical processing. 

## Multi-Target

A huge advantage of Heron is the write-once run anywhere philosophy. Heron code can just as easily target JavaScript or C++. 

## Open and Simple Implementation: No Stinking LLVM

Many languages have very large and complex toolchains (e.g. based on LLVM), whereas the primary Heron implementation is written in TypeScript and can run on any browser.

The implementation was intended to be easy enough that any computer science university student should be able to fork and start playing with the language implementation. 

This is related to the principle that programming language success is connected in large part to tooling. 

## The Module System 

One of the most important features of a programming language is the the ecosystem of libraries. This is conncted to the module system supported or encouraged by the language. 

## Specification over Implementation 

A philosophy of Heron is that the language specification is more important than an implementation. Many languages are stunted in growth because they are dependent on implementations (e.g. Perl, Python).   

## Immutability for the Win

The software development community at large is starting to appreciate the strength of the pure functional programming approach which emphasizes immutable data structures. We are seeing an increasing uptake of pure functional programming paradigms in JavaScript applications and elsewhere. 

Heron is a language that makes it easy to write immutable code, and makes it very hard to have side effects. 
  
## WASM Targetted Languages

https://github.com/appcypher/awesome-wasm-langs

## Languages for Array Processing

https://github.com/grame-cncm/faust

## Rant

1. Proper module systems
1. Full type inference 
1. Languages that aren't their implementation 
1. Removing the dependency on LLVM
1. Multiple targets: not just  JVM or LLVM or .NET or CLI or ....
1. Tools that are accessible to people
1. Simple syntax: stop making 
1. Breaking some patterns
1. Watching what JavaScript is doing well 
1. Breaking free from the evils of Mutation 
1. Features that we don't need
1. Comparing Rust with Go

## Paper Ideas
 
Onward: the next genertion of languages 
SLE: implementing a language in TypeScript
Onward: the tyranny of syntax
Onward: The false dichotomy of "dynamic" verus "non-dynamic" 
Onward: The end of "object oriented programming" 
Onward: On designing a language, doing one thing and doing it well
SLE: the importance of module systems
SLE: what makes languages popular 
SLE: the importance of an ecosystem for a language 
SLE: the importance of syntax and parsing 
SLE: build times
SLE: the importance of the REPL

//==

The module 

"language:flavor:version:organization:library-name:version"

heron:std:1.0.0:cdiggins:geometry:0.14.0

//==

Heron is a new programming language designed with array processing in mind, making it well suited for performing computations in 2D and 3D graphics. 

Heron is a multi-platform language that allows a user to target different platforms such as desktop, mobile, browsers, GPU, or embedded devices. 

Heron ships with a large and well-tested library for 3D graphics. 

The salient features of Heron are: 
1. Simple and concise syntax
1. Short learning curve 
1. Support for pure functional programming
1. Advanced module system
1. Multiple platforms and targets 

//==


Compared to JavaScript

1. More succint 
2. Simpler syntax (more regular, fewer symbols, easier to read) 
3. Simpler semantics 
3. Safer (emphasizes immutability, type-safety)
4. Better performance (compiled, optimized, inline, partial evaluation) 
5. less memory (optimizer, immutability => shared data structures)
6. Future proofing of code (should always run correctly if source module can be found)
7. Easier to write translators, analyzers, compilers, and interpreters 

Subjective 

1. Easier to read, write, learn, understand, predict, debug, refactor, and reuse 

Disadvantages 

1. Less flexibility 
1. Some old-school coding approaches (chaotic mutable state everywhere) have to be abandoned in favor of more functional approach: input -> output. This is balanced hopefully with a very succint and easy to read syntax, without too many symbols, and lots of easy to read example libraries. 

Random fun features:

1. No let/const, just var (but means let)
1. No this
1. No prototypes
1. Types are optional (inferred)
1. Data structures are immutable 
1. Range operator ".."
1. Only one kind of for loop: "for x in xs" (no "of" no redundant )
1. Functions can be called as if methods on the first argument (like C# extension methods)
1. Two types of arrays: immutable (default) and mutable 
1. Module and imports are part of language
1. No worries about "export" or visibility: everything public 
1. Explicit versions of modules in import statement
1. Every file specifies language version used to author language (future proof your code)
1. 'var in' allows expressions to be expressed as vars.
1. function = expr syntax for shorter function definitions
1. Always 'strict' 
1. Foreign function interface for targetting different platforms 

Compared to TypeScript 

1. Much simpler type system
2. For everything else see JavaScript.

Compared to C++

1. See JavaScript 
1. Performance should be nearly equivalent: it can be compiled to efficient C++ code 

Compared to other languages:

Generally speaking it is a "better" language, but it is more restricted to specific problem domains. We have left out recursive data-structures. This is a big omission, that makes it harder to implement things like trees and massive object oriented class hiearchies with state.

Philosophy

1. Code reuse
1. Safety
1. Simplicity  
1. Write once - run anywhere 
1. Open implementation 
1. Compilers should work harder for the programmers
1. Object oriented programming is dead 

Areas of specialty

1. 3D graphics
1. 2D graphics
1. image processing 
1. point-cloud processing
1. sound processing
1. statistics 
1. data analysis
1. data visualization
1. physics
1. genetics 
1. astronomy 
1. chemistry 
1. string processing
1. database back-end
1. file processing
1. animation
1. motion graphics 
1. data cleaning
1. pattern recognition
1. machine learning
1. animation
1. simulation
1. cfd (vis/sim)
1. cryptography
1. music
1. art
1. rendering
1. procedural architecture


## Ideas for Algorithms
https://webglfundamentals.org/webgl/lessons/webgl-image-processing.html
https://docs.gimp.org/en/plug-in-convmatrix.html
https://threejs.org/examples/#webgl_animation_cloth
https://threejs.org/examples/#webgl_effects_stereo

Animated camera
MPEG encoding
Integration
Curve fitting
Torus
Heat map
Curvature
UV Density 
Voronoi
CSG
Cloth simulation
Multi-fractal
Terrain
Water 
Snow
Fog
Foam 
Bubbles
Lofting 
Fractals
Dna
Draw the HIV virus
Physics
Catmull clark
Intesection 
Convex hull
Anti-aliasing
Image filters
Noise algorithms
Plants
Hilbert curve
L-System
Voxelization
Poissonian
Ray-casting
Edge smoothing
Simplification

//==

https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/blob/master/examples/js/objects/Water.js

//==

Type switch?? 

match (f.args.type) {
    (Array, Number) -> vector3$Array;
    (Array, Array) -> vector3$Array$Array;
}

https://fsharpforfunandprofit.com/posts/match-expression/
https://tour.golang.org/methods/16 

//==

"as" 

    intrinsic abs(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic acos(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic asin(x: Num): Num
    intrinsic atan(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic atan2(y: Num, x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic ceil(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic ceil(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic clamp(x: Num, min: Num, max: Num): Num;
    intrinsic cos(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic exp(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic floor(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic log(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic max(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic min(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic near(x: Num, y: Num, e: Num): Num;
    intrinsic pow(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic round(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic sin(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic sign(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic sqrt(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic tan(x: Num): Num;    

    intrinsic op+(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic op-(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic op*(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic op/(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic op%(x: Num, y: Num): Num;

    intrinsic op>(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op>=(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op<(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op<=(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op!=(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op==(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;

    //==

    TODO: 
Object-literal syntax for arrays and hashes
Array slicing and other intelligent collection operators
Perl 5 compatible regular expression literals
Destructuring bind (e.g. x, y = returnTwoValues())
Function literals and first-class, non-broken closures
Standard OOP with classes, instances, interfaces, polymorphism, etc.
Visibility quantifiers (public/private/protected)
Iterators and generators
List comprehensions
Namespaces and packages
Cross-platform GUI
Operator overloading
Keyword and rest parameters
First-class parser and AST support
Static typing and duck typing
Type expressions and statically checkable semantics
Solid string and collection libraries
Strings and streams act like collections

INTERESTING
http://steve-yegge.blogspot.ca/2007/02/next-big-language.html

//==

Heron has no this 

modName.children.map(c => c.allText);

In Heron becomes:

modName.children.map(allText);

//==

I need the intrinsic modules to be added to the global namespace ... 

//==

Todo:
* Separate out the different function defs based on the number and types of arguments. 
* figure out better difs
* when finding the def, if it is a call. 
* identify the symbols with too many names
* identify the symbols with not enough names
* why aren't the details showing when going to text
* control what is drawn when converting to text 
* identify the symbols that are ambiguous 
* provide more information in the scopes (maybe)

//==

I need to figure out if something is part of a function call, which function it is probably calling, if there is 
ambiguity. This can be done based on how it is used. 

* I could possible use 'HeronAstNode` class instances earlier.
* The VarUsage is not correctly typed? 
    * of course not: var usage type is determined by the definition.
* Some expressions are typed (literals)
* Definitions are typed. 
* Every expression has dependencies. This creates a graph. There is a graph of "possible dependencies" also, because
    we don't know for sure what function is what. That said, if we can narrow things down early, maybe it will 
    help, BUT, it won't be enough. I say that we 
* When walking the graph of possibilities, there is going to be one which is "self" (e.g. multiple constructors). 
    That one will have to be eliminated 
* What data types should I use for the expression dependency graph? 

* Expressions are either: named functions, anonymous functions, function calls, variables, or literals.

* So let's do that! 

//==

Is my code any good.

1. How many imported modules
1. Module import graph (is it a mess)
1. How long are the functions? 
1. Are symbols used? 
1. How long are files?
1. How nested are files? 
1. Do they pass basic ESLint tests? 
1. Do they pass advanced ESLint tests? 
1. How many comments are there? 
1. How much code redundancy is there? 
1. Quality of a repo? 
1. Is it tested?
1. Cyclomatic complexity? 
1. Different operators used?
1. Average line length
1. Function call charts? 

//==

I should probably check that a node only has one of:

//==

The type system for f(v) = z(v)

1) I need something that supports a "z". Signature based polymorphism. The type is the set of 
functions that are applicable. Note that "z" is polymorphic. There might be more types that support "z" then those that have been provided. Can the "definition" see the module that is 
including it? So if I add a new type, that has a "z" can that module use it? This is what is expected in a polymorphic type system. It is what is expected in C++ templates, in macros,
and with virtual functions. A lot of systems invent techniques to allow this. 

So the type of "v" is anything that can fit into "z"? How do I express that? 

1) It really has to do with, every spot in every function that it is used. 

Now in many languages we talk about interfaces. Which implies polymorphism on the first 
argument. 

So I can say: 
1) The set of functions where the first argument is "v".
This constitutes the interface/trait. 

2) Every function is a trait. 

3) 

//==

Types are named. There is a set of named types. Functions will accept them, or they won't. 

//

Now that I have "traits" and "types", how does the system know that some types are 
actually traits? 

The implementation of a trait function for a given type makes it a trait. Which is 
weird and confusing a bit. 

It implies I would have to reimplement freaking everything. 

//==

I can explicitly define interfaces. 

I can imply interfaces, but it is hard to know if something completely implements an interface.
For example consider the "Numerical".

I like the idea of having raw types, and then force casting when a function dictates so. 

So to write a type cast, provide a type signature.

Just giving a name to an interface is not sufficient, I think? 

The question now, is what are the intrinsics? 

I kind of need to bootstrap, to tell the compiler that my type implements X. 

Normally though I just want to write functions, and let it figure it out. 

I could do this in the intrinsics. It is repetitive, but it is accurate. 

//===

Building meshes is a great way to start. There will be a number of small tests I need to pass on the way there. 

Note: having a sort would be really nice. This implies the array assignment operators needs to
be made to work. It also implies I need a Mutable array (e.g. ArrayBuilder). 

The cube / squares example is good. I should do that. 

I have to walk before I run. One example of working good would be great. 

//== 

Resolve the modules. 
Check the languages and their compatibility.
Check the language strings. 
Check the versions of the languages of each file.

//== 

1. Print an array of numbers from 1..20
1. Print the biggest and smallest
1. Print the median
1. Print the sum
1. Print the average 
1. Filter the list (only evens)
1. Compute cubes and squares 
1. Sort the numbers

1. Compute sphere points
1. Scale sphere points 
1. Draw a sphere

//==

assignment . . . 
i += 1;

//==

Right now, I need to deal with assignments. I think I am skipping them.

THEN, I need to generate some JavaScript. *phew* 

Note: I can accidentally reference a function as a type. Weird. 

//==

There are two kinds of assignments. 

xs[n] = 

during preprocess: rewrite assignments. 

//== 

xs.sort
    => sort(xs)

map(xs, f)
    => map(xs)(f)

xs.map(f)
    => map(xs)(f)

xs.count
    => count(xs)

xs[i]
xs.at(i)
    => at(xs)(i)

//==

float3 v;
v.x;

array = { count:Int; map:(Array, Int -> x); }

map(array, )


var obj = Float3(x=42, y=x+3, z=0);


            // SO: we need to figure out which function this is here, based on the 
            // types of the arguments. Then where do we store it? 
            // The concept is: if it works we can use it. If there is ambiguity, well don't. 
            
            // What about inlining and stuff like that? 
            // Do I try inlining all of the functions? What happens in those cases? 
            // Do their names get resolved differently? 

            // Are we trying to work out the actual value? Or just the type? 
            // Well in most scases, just the type. 

            // 


Consider the case of a new data type. 

A Quaternion for example. Or a ray? 

A ray might have a distance. 

If it has a distance then the distance2 should be given obviously. 

Or if it has a begin and an end? Then there is a midpoint. 

This is how a lot really interesting stuff starts. 

I can recreate the refs for the functions that are loaded. 

In a way, we are creating a copy of the function. 

I'll have to be careful, because there could be some ambiguity.

Commit message:

Working on type system, but wrappers are too complicated

sandbox/notes.md, after:

# Why Heron

Heron is a programming language that strives for simplicity, safety, and code reuse. Heron supports multiple compilation targets, with the first implementation focusing on JavaScript. 

Heron is inspired by JavaScript, Python, Scala, Haskell, and C#. 

Heron contrasts with languages with significantly more complex syntax like Rust, C++, C#, F#, TypeScript, etc. in order to keep the language easy to learn, and as effective.  

Heron is a type-inferred language, and focuses on efficient array processing. Heron supports generics and higher-order functions. Heron emphasizes the use of immutable data structures. 

## Some Features 

Range operator a..b
Slice operator: xs[0:10]
Stride operator: xs[0:100:2] 
Arrow functions: 
Type inference of polymorphic functions 
All functions can be called using traditional function f(a, b) or invoked as method on first argument a.f(b)
Structural subtyping 
Operator overloading
Object literals


## Features Omitted 

Type declarations are not required. 
No difference between var, const, and let (just var)
No explicit memory management
No visibility management
No classes 

## Heron to JavaScript

One of the use cases of Heron is as a better JavaScript: 

1. Better management of module dependencies, via URNs
2. Better const management
3. Optimization of numerical array handling (via compiling to TypedArrays)
4. Restricted syntax 
5. Fewer gotachas 
6. Better performance
7. Static analysis 
8. Type inference 

Languages and technologies in this space:
1. Flow
1. Dart
1. TypeScript
1. CoffeeScript
1. Elm

## Heron for 3D Programming  

Heron is particularly well-suited to programming 3D applications because it is very strong at array and numerical processing. 

## Multi-Target

A huge advantage of Heron is the write-once run anywhere philosophy. Heron code can just as easily target JavaScript or C++. 

## Open and Simple Implementation: No Stinking LLVM

Many languages have very large and complex toolchains (e.g. based on LLVM), whereas the primary Heron implementation is written in TypeScript and can run on any browser.

The implementation was intended to be easy enough that any computer science university student should be able to fork and start playing with the language implementation. 

This is related to the principle that programming language success is connected in large part to tooling. 

## The Module System 

One of the most important features of a programming language is the the ecosystem of libraries. This is conncted to the module system supported or encouraged by the language. 

## Specification over Implementation 

A philosophy of Heron is that the language specification is more important than an implementation. Many languages are stunted in growth because they are dependent on implementations (e.g. Perl, Python).   

## Immutability for the Win

The software development community at large is starting to appreciate the strength of the pure functional programming approach which emphasizes immutable data structures. We are seeing an increasing uptake of pure functional programming paradigms in JavaScript applications and elsewhere. 

Heron is a language that makes it easy to write immutable code, and makes it very hard to have side effects. 
  
## WASM Targetted Languages

https://github.com/appcypher/awesome-wasm-langs

## Languages for Array Processing

https://github.com/grame-cncm/faust

## Rant

1. Proper module systems
1. Full type inference 
1. Languages that aren't their implementation 
1. Removing the dependency on LLVM
1. Multiple targets: not just  JVM or LLVM or .NET or CLI or ....
1. Tools that are accessible to people
1. Simple syntax: stop making 
1. Breaking some patterns
1. Watching what JavaScript is doing well 
1. Breaking free from the evils of Mutation 
1. Features that we don't need
1. Comparing Rust with Go

## Paper Ideas
 
Onward: the next genertion of languages 
SLE: implementing a language in TypeScript
Onward: the tyranny of syntax
Onward: The false dichotomy of "dynamic" verus "non-dynamic" 
Onward: The end of "object oriented programming" 
Onward: On designing a language, doing one thing and doing it well
SLE: the importance of module systems
SLE: what makes languages popular 
SLE: the importance of an ecosystem for a language 
SLE: the importance of syntax and parsing 
SLE: build times
SLE: the importance of the REPL

//==

The module 

"language:flavor:version:organization:library-name:version"

heron:std:1.0.0:cdiggins:geometry:0.14.0

//==

Heron is a new programming language designed with array processing in mind, making it well suited for performing computations in 2D and 3D graphics. 

Heron is a multi-platform language that allows a user to target different platforms such as desktop, mobile, browsers, GPU, or embedded devices. 

Heron ships with a large and well-tested library for 3D graphics. 

The salient features of Heron are: 
1. Simple and concise syntax
1. Short learning curve 
1. Support for pure functional programming
1. Advanced module system
1. Multiple platforms and targets 

//==


Compared to JavaScript

1. More succint 
2. Simpler syntax (more regular, fewer symbols, easier to read) 
3. Simpler semantics 
3. Safer (emphasizes immutability, type-safety)
4. Better performance (compiled, optimized, inline, partial evaluation) 
5. less memory (optimizer, immutability => shared data structures)
6. Future proofing of code (should always run correctly if source module can be found)
7. Easier to write translators, analyzers, compilers, and interpreters 

Subjective 

1. Easier to read, write, learn, understand, predict, debug, refactor, and reuse 

Disadvantages 

1. Less flexibility 
1. Some old-school coding approaches (chaotic mutable state everywhere) have to be abandoned in favor of more functional approach: input -> output. This is balanced hopefully with a very succint and easy to read syntax, without too many symbols, and lots of easy to read example libraries. 

Random fun features:

1. No let/const, just var (but means let)
1. No this
1. No prototypes
1. Types are optional (inferred)
1. Data structures are immutable 
1. Range operator ".."
1. Only one kind of for loop: "for x in xs" (no "of" no redundant )
1. Functions can be called as if methods on the first argument (like C# extension methods)
1. Two types of arrays: immutable (default) and mutable 
1. Module and imports are part of language
1. No worries about "export" or visibility: everything public 
1. Explicit versions of modules in import statement
1. Every file specifies language version used to author language (future proof your code)
1. 'var in' allows expressions to be expressed as vars.
1. function = expr syntax for shorter function definitions
1. Always 'strict' 
1. Foreign function interface for targetting different platforms 

Compared to TypeScript 

1. Much simpler type system
2. For everything else see JavaScript.

Compared to C++

1. See JavaScript 
1. Performance should be nearly equivalent: it can be compiled to efficient C++ code 

Compared to other languages:

Generally speaking it is a "better" language, but it is more restricted to specific problem domains. We have left out recursive data-structures. This is a big omission, that makes it harder to implement things like trees and massive object oriented class hiearchies with state.

Philosophy

1. Code reuse
1. Safety
1. Simplicity  
1. Write once - run anywhere 
1. Open implementation 
1. Compilers should work harder for the programmers
1. Object oriented programming is dead 

Areas of specialty

1. 3D graphics
1. 2D graphics
1. image processing 
1. point-cloud processing
1. sound processing
1. statistics 
1. data analysis
1. data visualization
1. physics
1. genetics 
1. astronomy 
1. chemistry 
1. string processing
1. database back-end
1. file processing
1. animation
1. motion graphics 
1. data cleaning
1. pattern recognition
1. machine learning
1. animation
1. simulation
1. cfd (vis/sim)
1. cryptography
1. music
1. art
1. rendering
1. procedural architecture


## Ideas for Algorithms
https://webglfundamentals.org/webgl/lessons/webgl-image-processing.html
https://docs.gimp.org/en/plug-in-convmatrix.html
https://threejs.org/examples/#webgl_animation_cloth
https://threejs.org/examples/#webgl_effects_stereo

Animated camera
MPEG encoding
Integration
Curve fitting
Torus
Heat map
Curvature
UV Density 
Voronoi
CSG
Cloth simulation
Multi-fractal
Terrain
Water 
Snow
Fog
Foam 
Bubbles
Lofting 
Fractals
Dna
Draw the HIV virus
Physics
Catmull clark
Intesection 
Convex hull
Anti-aliasing
Image filters
Noise algorithms
Plants
Hilbert curve
L-System
Voxelization
Poissonian
Ray-casting
Edge smoothing
Simplification

//==

https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/blob/master/examples/js/objects/Water.js

//==

Type switch?? 

match (f.args.type) {
    (Array, Number) -> vector3$Array;
    (Array, Array) -> vector3$Array$Array;
}

https://fsharpforfunandprofit.com/posts/match-expression/
https://tour.golang.org/methods/16 

//==

"as" 

    intrinsic abs(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic acos(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic asin(x: Num): Num
    intrinsic atan(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic atan2(y: Num, x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic ceil(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic ceil(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic clamp(x: Num, min: Num, max: Num): Num;
    intrinsic cos(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic exp(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic floor(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic log(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic max(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic min(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic near(x: Num, y: Num, e: Num): Num;
    intrinsic pow(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic round(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic sin(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic sign(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic sqrt(x: Num): Num;
    intrinsic tan(x: Num): Num;    

    intrinsic op+(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic op-(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic op*(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic op/(x: Num, y: Num): Num;
    intrinsic op%(x: Num, y: Num): Num;

    intrinsic op>(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op>=(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op<(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op<=(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op!=(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;
    intrinsic op==(x: Num, y: Num): Bool;

    //==

    TODO: 
Object-literal syntax for arrays and hashes
Array slicing and other intelligent collection operators
Perl 5 compatible regular expression literals
Destructuring bind (e.g. x, y = returnTwoValues())
Function literals and first-class, non-broken closures
Standard OOP with classes, instances, interfaces, polymorphism, etc.
Visibility quantifiers (public/private/protected)
Iterators and generators
List comprehensions
Namespaces and packages
Cross-platform GUI)
Operator overloading
Keyword and rest parameters
First-class parser and AST support
Static typing and duck typing
Type expressions and statically checkable semantics
Solid string and collection libraries
Strings and streams act like collections

INTERESTING
http://steve-yegge.blogspot.ca/2007/02/next-big-language.html

//==

Heron has no this 

modName.children.map(c => c.allText);

In Heron becomes:

modName.children.map(allText);

//==

I need the intrinsic modules to be added to the global namespace ... 

//==

Todo:
* Separate out the different function defs based on the number and types of arguments. 
* figure out better difs
* when finding the def, if it is a call. 
* identify the symbols with too many names
* identify the symbols with not enough names
* why aren't the details showing when going to text
* control what is drawn when converting to text 
* identify the symbols that are ambiguous 
* provide more information in the scopes (maybe)

//==

I need to figure out if something is part of a function call, which function it is probably calling, if there is 
ambiguity. This can be done based on how it is used. 

* I could possible use 'HeronAstNode` class instances earlier.
* The VarUsage is not correctly typed? 
    * of course not: var usage type is determined by the definition.
* Some expressions are typed (literals)
* Definitions are typed. 
* Every expression has dependencies. This creates a graph. There is a graph of "possible dependencies" also, because
    we don't know for sure what function is what. That said, if we can narrow things down early, maybe it will 
    help, BUT, it won't be enough. I say that we 
* When walking the graph of possibilities, there is going to be one which is "self" (e.g. multiple constructors). 
    That one will have to be eliminated 
* What data types should I use for the expression dependency graph? 

* Expressions are either: named functions, anonymous functions, function calls, variables, or literals.

* So let's do that! 

//==

Is my code any good.

1. How many imported modules
1. Module import graph (is it a mess)
1. How long are the functions? 
1. Are symbols used? 
1. How long are files?
1. How nested are files? 
1. Do they pass basic ESLint tests? 
1. Do they pass advanced ESLint tests? 
1. How many comments are there? 
1. How much code redundancy is there? 
1. Quality of a repo? 
1. Is it tested?
1. Cyclomatic complexity? 
1. Different operators used?
1. Average line length
1. Function call charts? 

//==

I should probably check that a node only has one of:

//==

The type system for f(v) = z(v)

1) I need something that supports a "z". Signature based polymorphism. The type is the set of 
functions that are applicable. Note that "z" is polymorphic. There might be more types that support "z" then those that have been provided. Can the "definition" see the module that is 
including it? So if I add a new type, that has a "z" can that module use it? This is what is expected in a polymorphic type system. It is what is expected in C++ templates, in macros,
and with virtual functions. A lot of systems invent techniques to allow this. 

So the type of "v" is anything that can fit into "z"? How do I express that? 

1) It really has to do with, every spot in every function that it is used. 

Now in many languages we talk about interfaces. Which implies polymorphism on the first 
argument. 

So I can say: 
1) The set of functions where the first argument is "v".
This constitutes the interface/trait. 

2) Every function is a trait. 

3) 

//==

Types are named. There is a set of named types. Functions will accept them, or they won't. 

//

Now that I have "traits" and "types", how does the system know that some types are 
actually traits? 

The implementation of a trait function for a given type makes it a trait. Which is 
weird and confusing a bit. 

It implies I would have to reimplement freaking everything. 

//==

I can explicitly define interfaces. 

I can imply interfaces, but it is hard to know if something completely implements an interface.
For example consider the "Numerical".

I like the idea of having raw types, and then force casting when a function dictates so. 

So to write a type cast, provide a type signature.

Just giving a name to an interface is not sufficient, I think? 

The question now, is what are the intrinsics? 

I kind of need to bootstrap, to tell the compiler that my type implements X. 

Normally though I just want to write functions, and let it figure it out. 

I could do this in the intrinsics. It is repetitive, but it is accurate. 

//===

Building meshes is a great way to start. There will be a number of small tests I need to pass on the way there. 

Note: having a sort would be really nice. This implies the array assignment operators needs to
be made to work. It also implies I need a Mutable array (e.g. ArrayBuilder). 

The cube / squares example is good. I should do that. 

I have to walk before I run. One example of working good would be great. 

//== 

Resolve the modules. 
Check the languages and their compatibility.
Check the language strings. 
Check the versions of the languages of each file.

//== 

1. Print an array of numbers from 1..20
1. Print the biggest and smallest
1. Print the median
1. Print the sum
1. Print the average 
1. Filter the list (only evens)
1. Compute cubes and squares 
1. Sort the numbers

1. Compute sphere points
1. Scale sphere points 
1. Draw a sphere

//==

assignment . . . 
i += 1;

//==

Right now, I need to deal with assignments. I think I am skipping them.

THEN, I need to generate some JavaScript. *phew* 

Note: I can accidentally reference a function as a type. Weird. 

//==

There are two kinds of assignments. 

xs[n] = 

during preprocess: rewrite assignments. 

//== 

xs.sort
    => sort(xs)

map(xs, f)
    => map(xs)(f)

xs.map(f)
    => map(xs)(f)

xs.count
    => count(xs)

xs[i]
xs.at(i)
    => at(xs)(i)

//==

float3 v;
v.x;

array = { count:Int; map:(Array, Int -> x); }

map(array, )


var obj = Float3(x=42, y=x+3, z=0);


            // SO: we need to figure out which function this is here, based on the 
            // types of the arguments. Then where do we store it? 
            // The concept is: if it works we can use it. If there is ambiguity, well don't. 
            
            // What about inlining and stuff like that? 
            // Do I try inlining all of the functions? What happens in those cases? 
            // Do their names get resolved differently? 

            // Are we trying to work out the actual value? Or just the type? 
            // Well in most scases, just the type. 

            // 


Consider the case of a new data type. 

A Quaternion for example. Or a ray? 

A ray might have a distance. 

If it has a distance then the distance2 should be given obviously. 

Or if it has a begin and an end? Then there is a midpoint. 

This is how a lot really interesting stuff starts. 

I can recreate the refs for the functions that are loaded. 

In a way, we are creating a copy of the function. 

I'll have to be careful, because there could be some ambiguity.

//==

So: I need scopes to evaluate things. I will try my best. 
As we evaluate, we will potentially end up with a different set of definitions. 

HOWEVER, what if a function includes a function, which includes a function? 

Don't worry. Just do it. 

So the evaluator is merged with the ref finding. 

The whole type evaluator is merged up with finding the expressions and doing the pseudo-evaluation.

I can use the scopes: some nodes have a scope.
